# `cs` - CodeShady's 42 Tool
42 Helper Script!

## Setup

âš ï¸ **First, ensure you have the following Python packages installed:**
```
$ pip3 install c_formatter_42
```

To start using this tool, grab the main `csverify.py` file and run the program to automatically create your `config.json` file. By default, a `csdata` folder will be created and placed in your `~/Documents/csdata/` folder. These generated files are used by the program later.

Find the `config.json` file generated by the program and edit the variables to your preferences.
```
{
    "USER":  "myusername",
    "EMAIL":  "user@student.42.fr",
}
```

**(Optional ðŸ¤·)**
For quick and easy usage, create an alias in your `.zshrc` or `.bashrc` file depending on which shell you're using. Point the alias to the location of the `csverifiy.py` file you downloaded from this GitHub repository.

**(~/.zshrc)**
```
alias cs="python3 ~/path/to/csverify.py"
```
Open a new shell or run `source ~/.zshrc` to update the changes to your shell session.

## ðŸ‘€ Using `cs`
Run `cs` in your terminal to get a list of cool tools you can use.
```
usage: csverify.py [-h] {...} ...

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --banner              Show the banner
  --note, -n            Access your personal notes
  --clear               Clear the screen before displaying the output
  ...

Sub-Commands:
  ...
```

## ðŸ“– Guide

### ðŸ‘‰ C Tools

#### Help
Use the `c` mode to select "C programming mode".
```
$ cs c --help
```
#### C File Template (with 42 Header)
Create a new C program with the required 42 header.
```
$ cs c --new my_new_program.c
```
#### Compile & Run your code
Compile and run your C code with the recommended compiler flags: `-Wall -Wextra -Werror`
```
$ cs c --run my_code.c
```
#### C File Template (with 42 Header)
Compile your C code into `a.out` with the recommended compiler flags: `-Wall -Wextra -Werror`
```
$ cs c --compile my_code.c
```
#### Norminette Check
Check your code with the `norminette`

ðŸ˜Ž Don't worry, the flag `-R CheckForbiddenSourceHeader` is used by default!
```
$ cs c --norm my_code.c
```
#### Norminette Auto Formatter
Format your C code automatically for the `norminette`
```
$ cs c --format my_code.c
```
#### Simulate Moulinette Code Grading 
If you have C code that prints the correct **output** that has successfully passed the Moulinette, use the `grade` mode to check whether the output of your code matches the correct output.

Use `--answer` followed by a C program to specify the code previously graded by the Moulinette.
```
$ cs grade my_own_code.c --answer test.c
```

### ðŸ‘‰ Preservation & Restoration
#### Preserve files
Similar to what `git` does, you can preserve a file for whatever reason. **I find myself running this before I delete valuable comments in my C code before formatting for the Norminette.**
```
$ cs preserve my_code.c
âœ… OK!
```

#### Restoring & viewing files
Once you've preserved a file or two, run the command below followed by the file you'd like to view the history of.
```
$ cs history my_code.c
ðŸ“„ my_code.c (2023/09/14 09:57:05) [f7d468b...]
ðŸ“„ my_code.c (2023/09/14 10:20:59) [3a30f16...]
```

To view the latest version of a preserved file, use `--latest` or `-l`
```
$ cs history my_code.c --latest
```

**Use `--pretty` or `-p` to _pretty-print_ your code** ðŸ’ƒ

```
$ cs history my_code.c --latest --pretty
```

To view the specific version of a preserved file, use `--hash` or `-s` (ha***s***h)

âš ï¸ **You don't have to type the whole hash, just the first few characters works!**
```
$ cs history my_code.c --hash f7d
...
$ cs history my_code.c --hash f7d468b
```

ðŸ˜Ž **Pro tip!** Use the command below to save a specific version of your file into a new file so you can make changes to it again!
```
$ cs history my_code_v1.c --latest > my_code_v2.c
```

### ðŸ‘‰ Git
#### Add, commit, push (all-in-one)
The tool below adds all changed files, commits them, and then pushes them to your git repository.
```
$ cs git --push
```
#### Just Commit
To add all changed files and commit them automatically **without pushing to your repository**, use the following:
```
$ cs git --commit
```
#### Log
Log your git history
```
$ cs git --log
```
